My guest today is Sergey Levine, one of
the co-founders and researchers at
Physical Intelligence. As a disclaimer,
I'm an investor in Physical Intelligence
because I believe it's one of the most
important companies tackling the problem
of robotics. As you hear us discuss
today, robotics has what I would call a
scarecrow problem. All of these amazing
physical devices are becoming ever more
possible in all sorts of cool
permutations, but what they all really
need is an intelligence, a brain, and
that is what they're developing at
Physical Intelligence. They're trying to
develop foundation models that can make
any physical robot do any task in any
environment. That challenge is daunting
and has required many of the world's
best researchers. Sergey is one of those
leaders coming together to try to solve
this problem. The nature of our
conversation today is all of the
problems facing robotics and all of the
promise of solving these problems across
the world. I hope you enjoy this great
conversation with Sergey Levine.
>> This is going to be a real treat and a
blast to learn about possibly the most
exciting impactful area of technology
being developed. Just to set the stage
before we go back in time, maybe you
could just define physical intelligence
as you see it.
>> Fundamentally, the goal of physical
intelligence is to develop robotic
foundation models that can control
basically any embodied system to do any
task. But, broadly speaking, you could
imagine that in the same way that a
language model
is kind of rapidly evolving towards a
system that can do any task that can be
expressed in language, what we would
like is to build a new class of models
that can do any task that can be done by
a physical actuated device.
And part of the thesis of this company
is that
we believe that doing it at the full
level of generality might actually in
the long run be easier than trying to
special case very specific narrow
application domains. Again, in much the
same way that for language models, it
turned out to be easier in some ways to
solve natural language tasks in their
full generality than to narrowly target
like machine translation or sentiment
analysis or whatever.
>> That may not be obvious why you would
make that bet versus a robot that just
does your dishes or something. Um, so
what are the key trade-offs to
understand and why make the decision
that you made?
>> Maybe I can I can give you like a
two-part answer for this. First is how
it relate kind of the analogy to
language models and the second one is
what that means in the robotics world.
So, uh
and the first one is kind of a little
bit more informed by evidence, right? In
the world of natural language, we saw
that there were a lot of efforts to
develop domain-specific solutions that
tackle specific problems. Like, you
know, somebody would spend a lot of time
thinking about how like English differs
from French and then build a machine
translation system.
The reason that language models actually
kind of took over for all of those
different application domains is because
they can leverage much broader sources
of data. And it's not even as simple as
saying like, oh, we had this data for
this application, this data for this
application, we like merge everything,
but it is actually more than that. It's
when you can leverage
weakly labeled data, like data that you
like, you know, in the case of language
models that you just mine from the web,
you actually learn more about the world.
So, you establish like foundation of
world understanding and then on top of
that foundation turns out to be much
more effective to build out different
applications. So,
to bring this into robotics, obviously
that calculus doesn't look quite the
same because in in robotics we don't
have like a internet-size data set that
we can just draw on, but this notion of
understanding the world, if anything, is
actually
more important in robotics because if
you have many different tasks, maybe
even many different physical systems,
then you can go from training individual
like, you know,
dishes dishwashing specialist or laundry
folding specialist and instead train a
model that actually understands physical
interaction. Right? Like, people can
master new skills very, very rapidly
because because we understand physical
interaction. We can, you know,
intuitively grasp like what's going to
happen in this new unfamiliar situation
and that is like bootstrap things
really, really quickly. So, if we can
draw on data from many sources, many
applications, many robots, then we can
have a model that has a physical
understanding and then it'll be much
much easier to put new applications on
top of that platform.
>> What is the hardest part about building
in this way for you when you get when
you see other approaches that are more
maybe legible to the average person? Oh,
there's a robot moving around doing this
one specific thing. It looks a certain
way.
What's what's the hardest part about
this approach as you're doing it?
>> I think this has actually been kind of
an issue in my whole career because when
you work on robotic learning and the
more general the more that this becomes
important is
effective robotic learning, effective
generalization isn't actually the
optimal way to have like a really
exciting demo. Like the way to have a
really exciting demo is to pick a really
cool task,
control everything else in the
environment, like set it up so that it's
perfectly clean, perfectly, you know,
pristine, and just make it work in that
one setting. Like that's the way you
make a robot demo. And generalization,
you can't just show it in like in one
spot, right? Like the point of
generalization is that it does something
relatively mundane that any human could
do, but it does it in any situation. So,
we had some demos that we released last
April where we showed our robot cleaning
kitchens. And like, you know, I think
it's kind of cool, but if you watch an
individual video out of context, it's
just like, okay, it's like picking up
plates, like anybody can pick up plates.
Except that we just put it into that
home just for that demo and it hadn't
never had training data from that
setting. So, obviously you kind of have
to like understand what's going on to
appreciate why this is actually pushing
the frontier.
>> What is your model for the stakes of
what you're doing? Like if you are
successful,
I'm curious for you to define what that
would mean, successful other than just
like we we crossed this chasm of like
general physical intelligence or
something. But if you cross that line,
then what?
>> One of the things that I think would be
really really exciting
that would be enabled by a
general-purpose embodied foundation
model is the ability to unlock people's
imagination in how they build robots and
other embodied systems. So, like
personal computers were really big deal
in my mind because it made it possible
for lots of people to hack together all
sorts of like really cool stuff. And
there was this like kind of Cambrian
explosion of like amazing applications
that started in the '90s and so on. Uh
and then was further accelerated by the
internet. And I think something like
that might happen in the world of
robotics, but it can't happen today
because if you want to
put together some cool new robotics
application, some cool new robotics
idea, you're going to have to build this
like monstrous stack and you need to
basically solve the intelligence
problem. But if there is a solution that
someone can build on top of, there's a a
foundation model that you can prompt
that'll provide like basic functionality
and then you can maybe fine-tune it a
little bit or adjust it in some way to
your application. Now, it actually makes
it a lot more tractable for lots of
people, lots of companies, lots of
individuals to try out all sorts of
different things. And I think, you know,
we
sometimes we think that like robots are
going to be like one thing. Like it's
just like, you know,
Yeah, there's there's people and now
we're going to make like metal people
and that'll be like robots. But I don't
think that's how it's going to be
because like no technology has been like
that. It's going to be more like kind of
a toolkit where you can put together all
sorts of like really cool applications,
get really creative with it, you know,
maybe I'm going to make a robot with
like five arms and this one's going to
hang from the ceiling and figure out
kind of the right thing to tackle your
domain, maybe also experiment with
software. But you need the right
platform on top of which to do that. And
I think the foundation model can be that
thing.
>> What are the, in your mind, the pros and
cons of the humanoid approach to
robotics?
>> One pro of it is that it's really cool.
Right? Like you can show it to somebody
and they're like, yeah, I get it. Like
>> Yeah, you hear a lot about the Optimus
hand.
>> Yeah. But but it is cool. I don't I
don't like
I think there's there's a lot of value
to that. There's a lot of value to
capturing the imagination and there's a
lot of value to like getting people to
think about what the future might look
like in you know, in a way that's
understandable. Um but I think it's, you
know, in my mind it's one of many
possible kinds of robots that we're
likely to have.
And I fundamentally the intel the
challenge of intelligence looks very
similar for all these different robots.
And
I don't think we should be tackling
intelligence in the context of one
specific body. I think we should handle
it in a general way because otherwise
it's just really hard to to like to get
a handle on this. We need lots of data.
The cool thing about being able to build
robots is that ultimately they don't
have to be
constrained to look like humans at all,
right? Like you can build the right tool
for the job. You could imagine that
you're building a house with a robot
that is a swarm of 1,000 quadcopters.
Uh and I think that in the future we'll
have
a robotic foundation model which can
then be adapted to all sorts of
applications and and it might really run
the gamut from like, you know, like
bulldozers or something to humanoids to
robotic arms like this thing. Uh and
maybe it would need to be adapted to
each one. Maybe it would need to be
fine-tuned. Maybe it would need
something in context to understand how
that body works. But the fundamentals of
how you interact with objects, how
things move in the world, how causality
works, like that's all conserved for all
these different systems.
>> Do you have a favorite example of what
might be possible with true general
intelligence that might not be possible
with say like a humanoid only
intelligence or something?
>> There are a few things that I that I
think are are worth thinking about. Uh
one is that we can make machines that
are very big and machines that are very
small. Uh I think that in the long run,
this is not by any means a short-term
thing, but in the long run, I think
there's lots of really exciting
applications in medicine, in surgery
where we not only might in the long run
not be limited to robots that look like
humans. We might not be limited to
robots that can even be controlled by
humans, right? Because currently, for
example, in robotic surgery, uh it's
done entirely through teleoperation. So
you need something that a person can
control in real time with the right
level of dexterity. And of course, it
that limitation holds for current
learning-enabled systems, too. But in
the long run, we could imagine
addressing that.
>> If you think about the
most important hash marks on the
timeline of robotics research that have
gotten us to here, I always think it's
super helpful to set the historical
context before we talk about like what
state is today and where we're going.
What could you walk us through that?
Like the the relevant hash marks on the
history timeline?
>> At some level doing end-to-end control
for robotic systems is a very very old
idea, right? Like the first for example
autonomous driving systems that used
end-to-end learning, they existed in the
1980s, right? Like Alvin was I think
it's 1986 or 87 and that was a driving
system that was demonstrated to drive on
highways controlled by a neural network
and then from a camera. The neural
network was like tiny, right? So I I I
think that there are some
very venerable concepts, but
historically what has been really
difficult in robotic learning is that
you need a system that that handles the
application you want to address that is
cost-effective to train for that
application, meaning that you don't need
like a huge amount of data for every
single application you want to tackle,
handles long-tail scenarios with common
sense. So if something weird takes place
in the world, it needs to like
have a reasonable response to it. And
then also for the thing that it's
actually supposed to do, it needs to be
robust, fast and reliable. And getting
all those things together is very very
hard because
with machine learning like it works best
when there's a lot of data. So if you
sort of naively approach a robotic
problem and say like I want to do like,
you know, washing dishes, right?
They obviously produce to collect like
an enormous amount of data of washing
dishes, but that's not cost-effective
because then you go on to the next
application and you go through that
process all over again. So
being able to train general-purpose
models that can handle many tasks is
essential to this because now you need a
lot less data for each new task. But
then even further and this is the thing
that has probably changed the most in
the last few years, you also then need
to handle
the unusual scenarios. And for the
unusual scenarios
you are probably not going to have
experience.
What you need to rely on is knowledge
that you've acquired from other sources
that you can ground in that new
situation. And people are extremely good
at this. So if if you're driving a car
and there's like, you know, something
going on in the in the middle of the
road and someone put up a sign saying
like, "Don't go here." Like, you know,
there's the gas leak or something.
You've probably never experienced that
before, but you can kind of like put
these things together and figure out
what you're supposed to do in that
unusual situation because you have
common sense.
And this has been like a huge mystery in
um in robotic learning world where we're
like, where do you get that common
sense? And this is what's changed in the
last few years because it turns out that
multimodal language models are really
good at pulling in knowledge and um
trying to articulate that knowledge.
They're not very good at like grounding
that knowledge in physical situations,
but they know stuff. So, now it actually
there there is a path to get that kind
of common sense by essentially
leveraging the knowledge that is
contained in multimodal LLMs.
But there's also a challenge because you
have to somehow plug into that knowledge
in the right way. Right? You can't just
like show it a picture and say, "What
would you do here?" because it doesn't
have the context. Like it doesn't know
that you are a robot, this is what you
look like, this is what's going on. So,
that's a technological challenge and uh
you know, we've made some headway on
addressing that technological challenge.
The research community in general has.
But most important is kind of that light
at the end of the tunnel that like,
"Okay, now we have this way of pulling
in lots of knowledge which can help us
handle those long-tail scenarios." Are
there hash mark equivalents on the
timeline of like AlexNet or the
Transformer? Are there big like major
events that you think everyone will
point to when writing the history books
about this? Uh that's a good question.
I think it's very early on right now. Um
to like answer that definitively. I
mean, certainly uh I would say that
there's like
you know, you're going to have to look
back like at least 10 years down
something like that. But you know,
probably the first uh end-to-end
learning systems which were in the '80s,
that's definitely a milestone. I think
that the first deep reinforcement
learning systems which were in in the
early 2010s, like those are probably a
milestone because deep reinforcement
learning gives us a way to go beyond
human-level performance which I think
will be essential for robotic systems.
And then there's the more recent stuff,
but you know, that's like in the last
few years. I don't know how that's going
to shake out as far as like whether
that's something that people will point
to, but I do think that the advent of um
multimodal LLMs that can be adapted to
robotic control to bring in that common
sense, I do think that's a really
important advance. I think we're
probably going to see quite a few
important advances in the next few
years. And you know, maybe those will be
the things people point to.
>> Can you tell us your own personal
history of approaching the problem? So
maybe the origin of when you first
became interested and why, and then how
you've managed how you've decided what
to spend your personal time and
attention on ever since then.
>> So I started working in robotics in um
2014, and that was actually after I
finished my um graduate degree and I
started a post doc with Professor Pieter
Abbeel at UC Berkeley. I actually hadn't
worked on on robotics before, but
I I figured I I I should get a little
bit more education after finishing my
degree, and uh his lab worked on robots,
so I I tried to apply what I had learned
previously to robotics. Before that I
worked on computer graphics actually.
Um and um
I think that the the thing that I've
always wanted to really figure out is
how to get
AI systems that get better and better
the more they do things, because I think
that's a tremendously powerful. If you
can have a system that gets better and
better the more it does something,
and it just keeps getting better, then
there's sort of like no limit that it
can master all the skills you'd want it
to do.
And initially I tried to approach it in
a very kind of blank slate way, meaning
like you start with nothing, you
practice a particular skill, and you get
and you get better at that skill. And
that was like kind of okay, like you can
you can do that in a limited setting,
and you get something that works, but
it's very hard to turn that into a
general system that can work in open
world settings. Because if I practice
something over here, and then it goes
over there, now something something is
different, and needs to practice all all
over again.
The next thing I tried to and this is I
did this when I worked at at Google
afterwards I tried to see if
we can do that but now paralyze it
across many robots. So collective
learning. Can you put like 20 robots in
a room and have them all learn together?
And that works.
And it generalizes.
But it's very hard for that to handle
these like tail cases, these edge cases,
right? Because now it becomes this kind
of like
kind of
savant of this particular task and
that's all it knows in the world.
So the
what but I think is is the next step is
what I mentioned before is combining
this ability to practice skills with
lots of prior knowledge. And that's
actually a really really hard problem.
You know, it's not just in robotics
where it's a hard problem. I think it's
a hard problem in all of AI because
arguably the two big impressive results
in AI over the last few decades have
been
generative AI and deep reinforcement
learning. Like if you want to like a
single example to epitomize generative
AI, that's like LLMs. Deep reinforcement
learning, AlphaGo, right? They're both
very very impressive and they're very
impressive for very different reasons.
The generative AI is impressive because
it can reproduce some of the things that
humans can do. Like it can draw pictures
that look like you know, human pictures,
write text.
Deep RL is impressive for the opposite
reason. It does things that humans
hadn't thought of. Like it
can move 37, exactly. So I think the the
big challenge and this is
kind of what I'm leading up to and what
I what I hope to
that we'll figure out here at Physical
Intelligence is how to combine those
threads. How to bring in all that
knowledge that you get with generative
AI but also go beyond just human level
performance with reinforcement learning.
And that I I I haven't figured out yet
but I think we've made some good
progress on that.
>> So what literally have you done and are
you doing to make that happen?
>> So in the past few years we started off
first by
developing the basic foundations. So the
basic foundation is what's called a
vision language action model. A vision
language action model you can think of
as an LLM that has been adapted for
robotic control. So, the way these
things are trained is they're first
trained on text data, then they're
adapted with lots of image data from the
web to understand images, and then
they're adapted to robots with lots of
very diverse robot data.
Now, that that's a starting point.
That's a way to take all of that web
knowledge, get it into a model that can
control robots, um and get some
interesting behaviors out of it. And
then from there, we studied uh two
threads, how to get this thing to handle
uh unusual situations with common sense,
and how to get it to improve with
reinforcement learning. So, the way you
get common sense is by essentially using
chain of thought. So, the robot enters a
a scene, uh and instead of directly
starting to move, it thinks about what
it was asked to do. So, if it was told
clean up the kitchen, it looks at the
scene and says like, "Okay, based on
this, I should pick up the the plate."
Like, it literally talks to itself. It
says, "Pick up the plate." And then it
goes and does it.
So, that unlocks
all this prior knowledge because those
intermediate inferences benefit from the
web-scale pre-training.
So, that's good. That That handles uh
edge cases. And then the reinforcement
learning part comes in after you've
practiced it a few times, and you keep
getting better and better at the task
directly through your experience. And
for example, we had this demo on making
espresso. That system practiced making
those espressos many, many times, and
used that to improve robustness, improve
speed, improve throughput. And we're not
done with that. Like, I think there's a
lot more to do there, but we have kind
of like the the starting point.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back,
using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my my does, too. To see
what happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out ramp.com/invest.
Every investor should know about Rogo,
because Rogo AI's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work,
from sourcing, diligence, and modeling
to turning analysis into deliverables.
For me, three key things differentiate
Rogo. First, it connects directly to
your systems, so it can work with your
actual data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end to end and produces
real outputs the way the best people do.
Auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
built by finance professionals for
finance professionals, and it's already
being adopted by some of the most
demanding institutions in the world. To
learn more, visit rogo.ai/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs.
That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Sorry to be thick about it, but
the robot data itself is the right way
to think about it. I'm looking at the,
you know, the the gen one of these
things. I see a camera here, maybe
there's some sensors somewhere else. Is
effectively the data being gathered by
various sensors strategically placed on
the robot at different parts?
>> Yeah. And um
something I'll say about sensors is that
I think you can actually get away with
less than one might think and still do
quite a lot. So, this platform here has
three cameras, one on each wrist, and a
base camera. It doesn't have touch
sensing, it doesn't have force sensing.
It's very bare-bones very low cost. Um
I'm sure that more sensors could make it
better, but a good learning method can
actually like compensate for deficient
sensing fairly well. Like the wrist
cameras are essentially a touch sensor
in disguise because you can see local
deformations when you touch something.
>> If I think about the analogy to like the
expert systems of the '80s and '90s in
in basic AI to the lesson that scales
all you need and the sort of
counterintuitive nature of that that
you're not teaching it any specific
thing, just like blasting it with data,
and there's this reservoir of internet
data. Talk about the reservoir how to
create the reservoir of data needed for
this.
>> Yeah. So, I don't think anybody really
knows how much robot data is needed to
have truly generalizable and powerful
embodied AI.
But my sense is that we actually don't
need to know. What we need to do is get
to the point where these systems are
useful enough that they can go out to
the world and gather more data
themselves.
>> Yeah.
>> Like basically, to put it bluntly, Tesla
doesn't worry about how much data their
cars can collect.
>> Right.
>> If anything, it's the other way around.
That's a little too much data, right?
So, I think that the key is not so much
to quantify like here is exactly the the
price tag of getting the ultimate robot
data set. The key is to get a system
that can go out to the world that's
useful enough, that does a wide variety
of different things, and that can keep
pulling in more data.
>> You brought up the example of Tesla, the
the beautiful system of a thing that's
useful without the AI to begin with cuz
a human drives it and it gathers data.
Why then not start with your best guess
at something that's useful as a single
robot to
>> Yeah.
>> have the same sort of flywheel thing
happen?
>> I think it's a good idea.
>> Yeah.
>> And and do you think that's an approach
that you'll pursue?
>> I don't think that there's like one
right answer, right? So, I think there
are some domains where deploying a
system under human control makes a lot
of sense. There's some domains where
deploying a partially autonomous system
uh is very reasonable. It it it it's
kind of domain dependent, right? Because
robots aren't just one thing.
>> Yeah.
>> Like maybe some some people might not
want a robot in their home that is
constantly being controlled by a person
offsite, but maybe for some applications
that doesn't matter.
>> Yeah. What has been So if you if you
mark the start of physical intelligence
through today, what has been the most
surprising thing to you that you've
discovered or the nature of how the
research has gone?
>> One of the things that's been surprising
to me is that I think we've made a lot
more progress on dexterity than I
thought we would. Um
So like I kind of had a
an expectation based on my prior work
that you know generalization being able
to handle all sorts of different scenes,
all sorts of different objects like you
know we had good reason to believe that
if we just like collect more and more
data that just steadily gets better.
But what was surprising is that we could
also get these systems to perform very
dexterous behaviors
without really doing anything
particularly special for that. The same
by the way also applied to
getting systems to work on different
embodiments where we could get our
models to work on all sorts of other
robots including robots with
multi-fingered hands,
uh robots with different numbers of
degrees of freedom.
And obviously we needed to get data and
we needed to fine-tune the model, but
the model itself didn't need to change.
It didn't It didn't even need to be told
uh through any kind of prompt what the
robot was.
And that was also surprising to me
because I would have thought that we
would need some fancy techniques to sort
of like adapt the system to faster, more
dexterous, more complex tasks and also
to different kinds of embodiments. But
it actually seems to generalize pretty
well across those.
>> I'm always interested in like the
spectrum of capabilities and especially
where the systems today are more
advanced than you think people would
probably expect and where they're less
advanced than people might expect.
>> This is something that's always been
very um
tricky to understand in robotics. Um
You know there's the there's this idea
that roboticists always talk about
called Moravec's paradox. Um it's
actually true in all areas of AI but
especially in robotics it's a big deal.
Um we kind of have a cognitive bias to
think that things that are easy for us
will be easy for the machine, right?
Like so solving calculus problems is
difficult for most people but uh picking
up a cup is easy for most people so we
think oh machines should be able to do
this." But, it's actually the other way
around that there are things that are
easy for us because they have to be,
otherwise we wouldn't survive. So, we're
like, you know, we're very good at like
spotting the tiger in the jungle because
the people that weren't so good at it
got eaten by the tiger and they're not
around anymore. So, um
because of that we have this cognitive
bias and we think that there are
uh things that should be very easy, but
they're actually very difficult
engineering challenges.
However, something that is changing is
that machine learning slightly changes
that equation. So, programming something
by hand to pick up any cup anywhere,
that's difficult. Getting a machine
learning system to do it if you have
data for it, it's actually not that
difficult.
And I think increasingly what we'll see
is um a shift where
domains where collecting data
straightforward,
they actually end up
falling into the easy bucket over time,
even if they are physically intricate.
But, there will be domains where
collecting data is difficult, where you
need to use more common sense, where you
need to reason at multiple levels of
abstraction, connect physical skills
that you've learned in other areas to
knowledge that you got from the web, and
those will will will be tough and that
that's where we'll we'll need more uh
technology advances.
>> What is the science of common sense? You
mentioned common sense before. Like,
when we say that,
>> Yeah.
>> what does that mean?
>> For the purpose of robotic learning, uh
we can think of it as
applying semantic inferences
using knowledge learned from other
domains to a to the current physical
task at hand.
Right? So,
you can think of common sense as sort of
the opposite of muscle memory. So,
muscle memory, like if you play a sport,
you practice something a lot, you hardly
think about it. You just kind of do it
on autopilot. Common sense it in my
mind, I don't know if this is the
conventional definition, but I think
it's a reasonable definition, is when
you know something to be true because
you saw it or you read about it or you
heard it, and now you are in a situation
where that fact is highly pertinent to
what you need to do. And you are able to
make that connection, apply it to your
situation, ground it in the environment
that you're in, and make the right
decision.
>> One of the other differences that's so
interesting to me is people that have
used chat Everyone's used chatbot now.
You query it, you get an answer, you
query it, you get an answer. We're now
seeing what happens with cloud code and
other things where you give it something
complicated and it's able to do a very
long
you know the the measure of how long it
can go without failing. What's the
similar thing long-range
thing in robotics?
>> It's something that we're working on
quite a bit right now and in fact the
methodology is not that different at
some level.
So, the way that our models work now, as
I mentioned, is they use this kind of
chain of thought process to reason about
the task. And when you have that, you
can actually do very long horizon tasks.
You can have a robot that goes and, you
know, takes out all the dishes from the
dishwasher, puts them in the correct
cabinets, wipes down the counter, all
that kind of stuff. The interesting
thing here is that we found, maybe about
6 months ago, that
our models had gotten to the point where
they could be improved just from
supervising them with high-level
instructions. So, what does that mean?
You you take a robot, you put it in a
new kitchen, you ask it to clean the
kitchen. It gets to work and then it
fails somewhere. So now, okay, what do
you do? Well, you you add more data.
Traditionally, what you what we would do
in that situation is add more
teleoperation data to cover a wider
range of kitchens.
But what we tried, kind of on a whim, is
to see, okay, well, what if we don't add
more teleoperation data? What if we just
add more data
labeled with the semantic command. So,
basically, just take whatever the robot
experienced and just, you know, label it
with some semantic commands, but don't
add any more low-level actions. And that
actually helps. That actually improves
its ability to generalize. So, what that
means is that the bottleneck had
actually shifted from the lowest level,
meaning the the robot's ability to
physically do the task, to this like
middle level, where now the system is
more bottlenecked by its ability to
interpret the scene and select the
correct next step, which can be
supervised with language. And that's a
big deal because now that means that
someone can literally talk to the robot.
>> Coaching, basically.
>> Yeah, exactly. And make it better just
by talking to it.
>> If we're in 2050 and there's no robot in
my kitchen doing my dishes for me, what
do you think the most likely explanation
is for it not having gotten there by
that point?
>> My suspicion is that
um
there is a a long tail of challenges
that has to do with the interaction of
technology and and people. Like, you
know, in some ways autonomous cars
aren't that different in this regard
where the
getting to a level of comfort
with deploying autonomous vehicles on
the road was you know that that was a a
significant challenge
that ran in parallel with getting the
technology to that level. And you know,
for example, like the early Tesla
self-driving was like a bit
controversial because it wasn't perfect.
And there was a question like are people
comfortable with this level of
imperfection? So, probably there are
some tasks for robots where
people will be comfortable with
something that's not perfect, something
that needs to learn from its mistakes.
There are some areas where people will
not be comfortable.
>> Are you
>> comfortable with you know, occasionally
breaking your dishes? Maybe in a few
years it will stop breaking those
dishes, but maybe in the meantime it's
not quite there. Are you comfortable
with a robot like that
in a home where there's like small
children? Maybe not. And that's okay,
right? So, I think that figuring out how
those factors interact and what that
means for
the timeline and for how these systems
get better with experience, I think
that's a tricky question. And I think it
needs to be approached very carefully
with a lot of sensitivity. There may be
some domains where it makes a lot more
sense for these systems to be deployed
and bootstrapped and collect more data.
And maybe other domains require more
care.
>> Could you imagine a purely technical
explanation for why something might not
work?
>> I think the place where I would see the
biggest technical risk is
dealing with
the breadth of different situations. So,
I think if we were talking about a
well-defined
but
you know but slightly chaotic
environment like cleaning hotel rooms or
working uh, know, assisting human uh,
cooks in a in a restaurant, right? Like
that that sort of thing, I think
I have like a very good sense for how to
get that under control. If you're
imagining a robot going into a home, you
know, one place where I can anticipate a
challenge is that there are a lot of
other unexpected things that can happen,
and you need a system that's very good
at
inferring what's going on and adapting
to it or reacting intelligently.
And I think we have a lot of ideas for
how we can approach it, but that is kind
of that the hardest part of the problem
because when you're in a situation where
just about anything could happen and uh,
you're controlling like a physical
device that, you know, affects the world
around it, uh, then you really need to
uh,
get things right at least at some level
pretty much in every case. Like it
doesn't mean that you always have to
succeed, but it does mean that you
always have to do something kind of
sensible that people are okay with.
And I think there are a lot of really
good ideas for how to do that, but that
is probably the most challenging part of
the equation.
>> If I go back to thinking about, uh,
the right model to think about the
physical intelligence approach to doing
this whole exercise, help me like make
it as simple as possible. So, one might
be we're going to build a whole variety
of different kinds of things to
different kinds of form factors to do a
whole variety of different kinds of
things and mash all this data together
and start to, you know, experiment with
how we can, you know, on evals make it
better. Is that just the simplest way of
doing it or is there an even simpler
way? And I'm asking cuz I'd love to then
contrast it with some other approaches
that you're interested in that you're
not doing that others are doing.
>> Mhm. Uh, I see.
So, in my mind the most important thing
to get right is um,
to get the system to be general and in
particular to get it to be general with
respect to
how it can be improved, right? So, you
know, for example, hand-designed robotic
controllers are not very general with
respect to how they can be improved
because it requires like a human
engineer to go in and improve it. Uh, a
learning-based system a learning-based
perception system is more general
because all it requires is human
labelers to go in and label more data. A
system that learns autonomously from
data that it gathers through its own
experience is even more general because
you don't even need the human labelers.
So,
the key is this generality particular
with respect to improvement.
Um and the decisions we make are to a
very large extent centered around that.
So,
I don't know if the the correct uh
design for a robot is to have three
cameras. I don't know if it needs like a
touch sensor. I think we're very
agnostic to that. I think we'll try a
lot of those uh different uh choices.
I'm not even sure if in the long run
it's going to have a language model.
Maybe it will have some other kind of
model that's trained on very diverse
data. Uh but the key is this level of
generality.
>> What other approaches are the most
interesting to you? I think one thing
that's like a very
>> important question in this area and
something that I think
the research community and the tech
community has not fully answered is the
dichotomy between different data sources
particularly with respect to real data
and simulation. It's a very
controversial topic. I have a very
strong opinion about it, but I think
that
it's worth acknowledging that
if we look for example at
humanoids, if you you know, if you've
seen videos of humanoids doing all these
acrobatics, right? There's a particular
pipeline that makes that work which is
very heavily reliant on simulation and
actually very light on real world data.
On often almost often actually zero real
world data. And then there are the
approaches that work well for robotic
manipulation that often are the
opposite. They often use very little
simulated data. Often use large amounts
of real world data and very large
foundation models. And it is kind of
surprising that in these two robotic
domains, the dominant approaches look so
different. Now, it may be that
one will win out and there is a
particular approach that can handle
everything in the long run or maybe
there's some sort of synthesis of these
ideas
uh that's important. I I don't know the
answer. I have I have my own subjective
opinions. I think the approach we're
taking is a very good one, but I think
that it's interesting to look at that
and see why is it that these things are
so different.
>> Can you talk about the contrast between
cool and useful?
Like the Boston Dynamics robot is very
cool. Like the the backflip is super
cool. The I don't know what I need that
requires a robot to do a backflip.
Um so I'm curious how you think about
optimizing around cool versus useful.
>> I think the strategy we've taken, uh I
don't know if it's like it's like the
right strategy, but uh the strategy
we've taken is subject to the constraint
that it's useful, make it as cool as
possible. Uh and uh that that's kind of
reflected in in, you know, in our blog
posts and our videos is that
we make decisions first and foremost
based on
uh our assessment of what will drive the
tech forward towards this truly general,
broadly applicable uh robotic foundation
model. But in doing that, we try to
stress test it against the kind of the
toughest challenges we can throw at it.
And that's, you know, the toughest
challenges are often ones that look
cool. So, we didn't set out, for
example, to build a robot that uh can
make espresso or can uh you know, fold
the a laundry, but
in the process of building these general
systems, we figure like these would be
particularly challenging, particularly
exciting things to try with them to see
how far we can push them.
>> Can you talk about the robot Olympics?
>> Yeah, yeah. So, um
there was um
uh
a gentleman named Benji Holson who used
to work at um Everyday Robots, uh part
of Alphabet before it dissolved, and he
spends a lot of time thinking about
tasks that robots can do. So, he wrote a
really interesting blog post a while
back uh where he basically said like,
"Hey, um
there was this like uh robot Olympics
that was held in China where robots
would like run around on a on a track
and jump and so on, but maybe these
aren't like the real challenges we
should worry about. How about a robot
Olympics centered around
essentially everyday tasks that people
do? That's kind of more of a paradox
thing where tasks that people find
really easy, but that robots struggle
with." And he had things like, you know,
opening a door, uh washing a frying pan
uh with with grease on it, using a
plastic bag to pick up dog poop, right?
That's like things that people don't
find particularly challenging, but that
like no current robotic system can do.
And he listed, you know, maybe a dozen
of these things.
Uh and we wanted to give this a shot. We
weren't This wasn't actually like part
of a concerted like research project. It
was more like, you know, we had
developed processes and systems for just
like ingesting new tasks that we wanted
to use for all sorts of tasks. And we
figured, okay, well, like a good way to
test this is to say like, "Hey, here's
like a big list of tasks. Let's just go
through this process that we've
developed and see if it works,
basically." So, it's almost like a test
of like our internal operations and
model training system. Then we tried
these things and actually turned out
that we could solve almost all of them.
We didn't get um
There's one we couldn't do, which was
turning a dress shirt inside out because
the grippers on this thing wouldn't fit
inside the sleeve. So, we probably need
to change the gripper.
And I think on a technicality, we didn't
succeed at peeling an orange because he
said, "Do it with the fingers." And our
fingers weren't strong enough. So, we
had to use like a little tool, like a
little
knife, basically.
But everything everything else we could
do. Uh and what was actually interesting
to me is that I mean, obviously it's
cool, like the videos are nice. But in,
you know, if anybody watches those
videos, one thing that I think is
important to keep in mind is we didn't
like develop anything special for this.
We literally use this as a test of our
like task onboarding process. And I
think that's that's like there's
something interesting there because it
suggests
the power of generality. That when you
have this this kind of general system,
you can really just like onboard all
these crazy tasks without really doing
anything particularly sophisticated.
>> I was curious before when you said
superhuman ability like on dexterity or
something like that where we're limited
by what we can do or maybe by what we
can control even if it's gets gets
smaller. What are some of the other
dimensions like that we might surpass
human ability on in terms of like
physical, you know, physical ability?
What are the other uh,
trend lines that are most interesting to
you.
>> So, here's a fun one. We were uh working
on a task where our robot had to plug in
cables, like think like power cables or
ethernet cables or something like that.
And when a person does this,
I mean obviously if you practice it a
lot you'll get really good at it, but
when a person does this without having
practiced a lot, you pause frequently,
right? Because it's it's not a physical
thing. You just have you have to count
the past what's going on. You have to
make sure that it's like all lined and
all that stuff. So, you do it very
slowly. And if you're tele-operating a
robot, you do it even more slowly
because there's this level of
indirection.
It turns out to be like pretty
straightforward to go in and like find
all those pauses and remove them.
Uh, and you can speed things up further
so you can get a task where a person
demonstrates what it means to succeed
and then you can have the robot practice
the task and succeed in the same way but
a lot more quickly, a lot more
efficiently. And the most general way to
do this to do this is with reinforcement
learning, but there are also like some
simple tricks you can do that if you
just want speed. So, that's like one
example of something where you can have
a machine that does it a lot better.
And you know, at some level you have
like a processing bottleneck. Like
that's why the person does it slowly
because they have to process what's
going on, but speeding up processing is
something that people understand quite
well in computer science.
>> There's this amazing Michael Crichton
novel called Prey where Is it a question
about form factor? Where it seems like
for a given problem there there may be
an optimal or set of optimal shapes of
the robot to perform the task and that
what you should do is analyze the
problem then have something that can
almost like morph or transform into
form factor. How do you think about
that? The innovation on the form factor
side rather than the data and model
side?
>> I think that in general in robotics,
the ability to innovate on form factors
has been very constrained because of the
AI challenge, right? So, if you have a a
traditional
AI pipeline like you know, you're doing
some motion planning and stuff like
that,
it's hard to just like go and cobble
together some new robot because when you
do that you have to like
characterize the dynamics of the system.
You have to do system ID. You have to
build up all this stuff.
If you could just put together a robot
in your garage,
load up a robotic foundation model, and
tell it to do a bunch of stuff. Like
maybe it won't be perfect out of maybe
it needs more data really perfect it.
But you can at least like get the thing
moving. I think that could be a really
powerful engine just to get everybody to
experiment with this stuff.
So I don't I don't think that like I'm
like the right person to design the
perfect robot. There are people here of
course who are a lot better at that. But
in general I think that it's it's just
like with personal computers. I think
the key is to let people experiment and
play around with it and just radically
lower the barrier to entry for that. And
I think then we'll see a lot of a lot
more creativity. Like you know what when
uh
when we first when people first started
using computers uh personal computers,
there was a limited number of form
factors. Now you can have a computer in
your phone, a computer in your car,
embed a computer in your refrigerator.
They're everywhere and they're very
different. And generality, good
software, good foundation to which you
can build applications, those are key to
enabling that.
>> Professor Andy Locky once described to
me the feeling of physical intelligence
for a human is like learning how to ride
a bike. Like there's that moment when
like you didn't know how to do it and
then you do know how to do it and that
feeling is physical intelligence, that
like snap of understanding.
>> You know, there's actually a
physiological explanation for this.
There were studies that that that were
done in monkeys using tools. And you can
actually find where in the brain
uh like which neurons activate for the
monkey to figure out where its hand is.
It turns out that if it's using a tool,
they activate based on the location of
the tool tip, not based on location of
the hand. So like the tool being an
extension of your body is like that is a
real physiological thing. Like your
brain literally does that.
>> So what is that Knowing that, what does
that do to impact the approach to your
research?
>> Well, I I I think to me it says that
physical intelligence should be
uh at at some level agnostic to
embodiment. That that that that a good
foundation model should figure out how
to manipulate whatever body uh it's
controlling, whatever tools it has at
hand, that it there's basically one
problem, not many different problems.
There isn't like a humanoid problem and
a car problem and a bulldozer problem
and a robot bolted to the table problem.
There is one problem and if you solve it
at this full level of generality, that's
really, really powerful.
>> As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids and
patches, it's unfortunately far too easy
for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool designed to simplify and automate
your security work and deliver a single
source of truth for compliance and risk.
There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor and
Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them
to focus on building amazing
differentiated products, knowing that
compliance and security are under
control. Learn more at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more headcount and more
risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward, one unified platform that
automates away the complexity across
portfolio accounting, reconciliation,
reporting, trading, compliance and more,
all at scale. Ridgeline is
revolutionizing investment management,
helping ambitious firms scale faster,
operate smarter and stay ahead of the
curve. See what Ridgeline can unlock for
your firm. Schedule a demo at
ridgeline.ai.
>> We're start we're in the early stages of
seeing some of the job and other sorts
of transformation in businesses in the
economy, etc. that LLMs make possible.
Uh certainly we've seen it in in
engineering. How do you think about what
might happen or what you hope will
happen
when we're at a similar stage, whenever
that happens to be, for robotics, where
all of a sudden we have this thing
that's general, that's useful. Like
where where do you think the world's
very efficient at deploying these
things? People are creative. Where do
you expect to see the world start to
change most in the early days post
physical intelligence?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's a really interesting
question. Um I
I really don't know, right? Like I don't
think anybody would have been able to
predict how the LM stuff evolves and
people would have guessed, but this is
why I keep coming back to this idea that
maybe the key is to let people try lots
of things. Like one of the really
amazing things about applications of
LLM's is that they are like really
accessible and somebody could put
together a really cool new prototype
that under the hood is just like
prompting like, you know, chat GPT or
something, but they can experiment with
it, they can try it out, see what it
does and there's an amazing kind of a
power to having lots of people, lots of
smart people rapidly iterating and
prototyping lots of things.
Um, and and that's why I, you know,
that's that's a lot of why physical
intelligence has really put a premium on
on engagement like we've open sourced
our models.
We would like to engage with lots of
other companies that are building robots
because
we all see a lot of power in this effect
of having many people trying out lots of
things.
>> What are the major controversies in the
robotics community?
>> Uh, obviously I'm I'm an academic, so
to me a controversy is like someone gets
in a in an argument with me at a
conference, but I but I can tell you
that the kind of arguments that I that I
found myself in and it's kind of an
interesting trajectory that in the early
days the main argument I would have with
people is
does learning have a place in robotic
AI? And
I think part of why that was often
a controversial point is that
in a traditional engineering pipeline
robots do look very different than
software artifacts. Like, you know,
they're they're physical that that that
they can affect stuff around them. They
can, you know, there's safety
considerations. There are a lot of weird
situations they can get into and it's it
it took a really long time for the
robotics research community to really
internalize that you don't necessarily
need to program in things like knowledge
of physics. Like you don't necessarily
need a physics simulator inside your
robot when it's planning, we can
actually have a learning system figure
all that stuff out. And that that was a
very controversial thing for a very long
time.
I think at this point there's a lot of
acceptance that learning is a really
important part of robotics, but I don't
think there's still universal acceptance
that end-to-end learning is the right
way to go. That basically I don't think
there's universal acceptance of the
bitter lesson. The bitter lesson says
that you should not program the machine
to think the way you think it should
think, but you should let it learn from
data. And that is not a universally
accepted idea. I I think there's good
arguments against it, but I think that
in the long run if we want that
generality, especially generality in the
machine's ability to improve, then we
need it to primarily be learning from
data.
>> What is the good argument against?
>> My best attempt at steel manning this is
that if you want something reliable in a
really complicated open world setting,
then you can't afford not to use what
you already know about the physical
world, and we've got like textbooks full
of this stuff. So, why don't we just
like plug in what we know from the
textbooks?
>> What is compositional learning? Can you
describe that?
>> There's an example I can give you which
maybe is like
the more vivid way to communicate. This
is this is an example that is due to
one of my students actually. He had this
idea where he
asked a language model to provide a
recipe for how to make a sandwich in
International Phonetic Alphabet.
International Phonetic Alphabet is these
symbols that that they use in a
dictionary to explain how to pronounce a
word. And it's very peculiar because it
only ever appears for individual words
in a dictionary. Like you never see text
free form text written in International
Phonetic Alphabet. But if you ask a good
language model, it will write paragraphs
in IPA for you. And that is
compositional generalization. It means
that you have never seen this particular
language, this particular alphabet used
to write paragraphs, but you understand
paragraphs, you understand that it's
compositional with different alphabets,
so you can solve the problem. And you
can imagine the same thing coming up in
robotics, that you've learned a
repertoire of skills, and now you can
combine and mix those skills and apply
them to solve new problems.
>> It makes me wonder what the last type of
tasks you think will be possible for a
robotic system
to achieve?
>> I think changing a child's diaper will
be really really hard.
>> Say more.
>> Well, um
I think that there is a
I I think it this this really is just
more of a mix paradox all over again
that people are extremely good at
certain things. We're very good at
physical things. We're also very good at
interacting with other people.
And that makes sense. Like we have to
be. Like that's a lot of a lot of our
systems. So things that involve
behaviors that interact with other
people, uh where where you have to like
uh you know, actually help somebody like
you have to help somebody get out of bed
or something like that. I think that's a
lot harder than people appreciate. So I
think like elderly care, taking care of
small children, I think those things are
going to be hard and they're probably
going to be harder than people think.
>> Mhm. And the stakes are very high.
I want my baby to be last.
>> not just that. The stakes are high in
many places. It's just that it's
probably like the pinnacle of something
that fools us into thinking that it's
easier than it than that it's uh easier
than it really is, right? Because just
like we are so
evolved for interacting with people and
doing things physically. And uh you
know, if you're if you're helping
somebody get up the stairs or get out of
bed or something like that, like you
don't have to think very carefully about
how you're going to do that. Like you
you kind of know. So I think it's really
the pinnacle of Moravec's paradox.
>> If I think about an LLM as a brain and
now it's effectively studied everything,
I don't know how else to put it. And
then I think about a robotics brain
uh a robotics model's brain instead.
What are like the dark parts of the
brain? Like what what has it not been
able to study or penetrate or learn Like
what are the areas that have just been
really difficult that matter but have
been hard to
>> Mhm.
>> for us to get into? One of the things
that people are remarkably good at is
using physical analogies to understand
other situations. I don't know whether
this is something that LLMs can or can't
do, but um
it it is something that people use a
lot. They use it in everyday life, and
they also use it for very sophisticated
problems. So, for example, you could
say, "That company has a lot of
momentum." That's a physical analogy.
You know exactly what it means. Like, I
don't have to explain that statement to
you. But, if you actually think about
that, it is like quite a complex thing.
There's like a lot riding on that word
momentum.
There is a an interview with
Richard Feynman, where he talks about
analogies that he makes in regards to
subatomic particles. And he says, like,
"Okay, we use like the word spin. Okay,
like the thing is not really spinning.
Like, it's not like a spinning top. But,
all those kind of analogies really help
us make sense of it, and not just in a
way that allows
explaining concepts, but it actually
leads to conclusions. It actually leads
to inferences, and those inferences
actually make sense. Right?
So, that's kind of remarkable that we we
are so primed to interact with the
physical world, so primed to have
physical intelligence, that you can use
it in everyday speech by saying that
company has a lot of momentum, and you
can use it when advancing fundamental
theoretical physics. That's kind of
remarkable.
I don't know if LLMs can do that. Maybe
they can, but I think that really
understanding physical interactions,
causal structures, all that kind of
stuff, there is something kind of
special about that, and it's clearly
something that people get a lot of
mileage out of.
>> I'd love to talk about the the role of
researchers and the actual people doing
the research. In LLM world, it's fairly
shocking how few people are in the the
global scale responsible for basically
all the progress in in LLMs. Someone
like Ilya is an example. What is that
like in robotics? Like, how many people
in the world are truly impacting
this trajectory? And then I want to ask
about like what good research means.
>> I think those kinds of questions are
often very hard to answer about science,
because I think that, you know, we
sometimes have a tendency, when we
especially when we look at at history,
to underline like particular milestones.
And certainly in machine learning this
is the case. Like, you can say, "Okay,
like well, like AlexNet was a was a big
step forward. This was a big step
forward." That's true. But, I think it's
also important to remember that these uh
uh advances um
they happen because lots of people are
trying lots of things, and even some of
the failures are actually very
instructive. Like I complained before a
little bit in a low-key way about the
controversy around end-to-end robotic
learning, but I don't know if robotic
learning would have advanced the same
way if it if it were not for the for the
controversy, so to speak. It is true
that you can kind of look through the
list of successes and mark down that
like oh like these folks were like, you
know, you were have a a history of
repeatedly hitting home runs, but I
think in reality in the scientific
community, it's not just the home runs
that are responsible for progress. And
even and even some of the failures and
even some of the bad ideas are very
instructive in pushing towards the good
ideas.
>> Yeah, it's fascinating to think about um
the example you gave before is so
interesting where the research insight
was like just give it some coaching and
it gets better. Seems like that sort of
insight is is can be very powerful and
and high leverage, which makes me wonder
like what have you learned about what
makes for a great researcher?
>> Research is definitely different from
engineering because in research, the
important thing is to get to an answer
to a question, which often requires
cutting some corners. And one of the
most delicate decisions in research is
when do you
try new things or is when do you stick
with what you're already trying? And
that's very very delicate. It's very
very hard to figure that out. And if you
get it wrong, then you can miss
something really remarkable. So if you
get it wrong and you don't stick with
something for long enough, you might be
like right there. You might be about to
get to the answer, and then you stop
just short of it. That's terrible.
Uh or you could get stuck like just
hammering against something that's never
going to give way for years. Uh so
deciding when to sort of turn a little
bit and look this way and that to open
yourself up to more opportunities versus
when do you should you keep hammering on
the thing because you're about to get
the solution, that's often the most
important decision. And people Some
people have an instinct for getting that
right, and that counts for a lot.
>> You've obviously been in and around and
are one, you know, great researchers.
What are these people like like as
people? How do they tend to be
distinctive from, you know, the average
person?
>> I think they're just the same. I'm
thinking about the the the people that
that I deeply respect that are really
good at this stuff.
I have a very hard time thinking of a
single set of personality traits. The
one The one constant is that that
there's no constant, basically. It's
just, you know, there might be a
commonality in that to
do effective science, you have to be
very passionate about that. But even
that passion can come from many
different places. Like I've worked with
people that were remarkably effective
that are just driven purely by like the
desire for novelty. Like they don't give
a damn about what their technology does.
They don't give a damn about whether
it's useful. They just want like cool
new ideas. I've also worked with other
people that just like really want to
solve a particular thing. And they're
just as happy like, you know,
building stuff as they are testing out
experiments as they are just like
hammering away at things like whatever
whatever it takes.
And all those types can be very
effective.
>> You mentioned the distinction between
research and engineering, which also
makes me think of manufacturing. Like
Elon would be fond of saying that the
factory is the product. Like the hardest
part of this whole equation is actually
the scale up of, you know, whatever that
whatever this thing ends up looking like
making, you know, 100 million of those.
How do you think about that part of the
equation or is it too remote at this
stage to spend too much of your time?
>> No, I I think it's an important part of
the equation. I'm not sure it's it's
like the part of the equation that
we most need to figure out right now,
but it's certainly part of it.
And
as you might have guessed from my
answers to the other questions that a
lot of how I prefer to think about this
is to
figure out the the hard part and then
enable a lot of experimentation on the
other parts, right? So, yes, making a
robot at scale is difficult. Making a
robot at scale is even more difficult if
you don't know what kind of software is
going to run it afterwards and you're
not even sure whether it's It's right
kind of robot. So, I think one of the
one of the really valuable things we can
get out of general purpose uh AI tools
like robotic foundation models is the
ability to like get a lot of the other
stuff figured out so that at least like
some of the uncertainty goes away so
that when when you scale things up, you
have some confidence that this is like
really going to work.
>> A lot of people that listen to this are
entrepreneurs, people that run
companies. A very popular question has
become how should a traditional company
begin to think about using LLMs or
preparing itself for, you know, the the
ongoing improvement of these models. How
would you answer the same question for
robotics?
>> It's a very good question. It's also a
very difficult question because the
technology is changing so rapidly. So,
um
and I want to illustrate why this
question is difficult with an example.
So, here is a particular uncertainty
about the tech.
It's It's going to be a little bit
specific, but it's a It's an example.
Will the robots rely more on
demonstrations or on reinforcement
learning from autonomous data? We're
working on both of those things and
they're clearly both important, but
how somebody should prepare for the
technology will be pretty different if
they're expecting that they need lots of
teleoperation to produce lots of
demonstrations
and like a little bit of autonomous
experience versus the opposite, like a
tiny number of demonstration that huge
amounts of autonomous experience. Like
is it 90/10 or 10/10 10/90?
Uh and that's something we're hopefully
going to learn about over the next few
years, but it does change the uh correct
approach pretty dramatically.
So, that's kind of a case
a case study of how
changes in technology will dramatically
alter this.
>> From a business standpoint, is the right
way to think about it just like get
really clear on the economics of the
labor in your business or something? And
I'm curious how you think about that,
like the way that this will change the
nature of labor itself.
>> I think um coding tools are like a
really nice example to look out for a
template of how this might work. Like
it's not like coding tools came on the
scene and suddenly
uh we don't need software engineers
anymore. It's that the coding tools
increase the productivity of individual
software engineers. There's some amount
of work that needs to be done to make
sure that people are able to use them.
Uh there's some amount of
technology development that needs to be
done to make them useful for the the
appropriate use case and these things
are co-evolving and they're also still
changing like, you know, coding agents
are different than like, you know, code
completion tools and so on. But I think
it's like a nice template for us to look
at to see how AI tools combine with
people doing a job, increase their
productivity, and also, you know, raise
new challenges. And I think we'll
actually see something like that with
robotics, too, that uh a more realistic
template is not like, you know, the the
humanoid like goes in and the people
just
think it'll be more like there are some
aspects of the of the job that can be
done by a robot, some that can be done
with a robot working together with a
person,
uh some that can be uh you know, where
the person needs to like do something
special to make the robot more
productive, some where it's the other
way around where the robot does
something that makes the human more
productive, and it'll be this kind of
dance that we've seen with coding tools.
>> Do you have a favorite robot that you
it's not part of what Physical
Intelligence is doing?
>> I do really like the uh the Boston
Dynamics robot the the the new
especially the new version of the Atlas
because it is
in some ways very human-like and in some
ways very not human-like, right? Like
they they they made some interesting
decisions about how they want more range
of motion on the joints so it can do
some like pretty cool things.
Um it's also a very agile robot which is
really cool. It makes those awesome
demos. So, I'm a big fan of that. I'm
generally a big fan of like everything
that Boston Dynamics has done.
>> Should or could anything be read into
the fact that Boston Dynamics has been
doing very cool demos for a very long
time and don't actually do anything
useful for people for customers?
>> Yeah, it's a fair question. I think it's
I think it's also a fair question for
lots of robotics companies, to be fair.
Um
I I think that, you know, what I'll say
in general terms is that I think it
there is a lot of value in demos that
serve to illustrate challenges on the
road to something useful and productive.
And uh you know, obviously you can also
do a demo without being on the road to
something useful and productive, but I
think that there is value in demos. I
think that demos that are used correctly
in service to a mission can
provide people with an illustration of
what to expect, and they also provide a
challenge. You just have to be like
honest in setting up that challenge.
>> How much do you think about the the
business end points? Like I think to
this point Roomba is like the
best-selling robot of all time in in the
consumer category, which is kind of
surprising. Um and of course we might be
on the edge of some sort of Cambrian
explosion. But how much of your cycles
do you spend thinking about like
this is the shape of a product that
might result from this that maybe is the
way we bootstrap our way to all this
data.
>> Yeah.
I mean I certainly spend some time
thinking about it. Um I think it's just
something that's very hard to reduce to
like a very concrete answer right now.
Uh but it it's not too bad to like think
about a space of possibilities. And uh
you know, a lot of what we're doing when
we um develop uh our models, when we
experiment with different tasks, when we
do demos like the Robot Olympics,
underneath we're kind of prototyping
what does it look like when we try to do
something real with this? Obviously to
different degrees of real, and what goes
wrong. So it is something we think about
a lot. It's not something that I have
even close to like a concrete answer to,
but you know, there's a space of
possibilities and a lot of what we
actually are planning to do in 2026 is
also experiment with different things in
that space.
>> When you study the history of
general-purpose technologies, which
certainly you know, this would be a
major one if if it comes to fruition,
you often find this constellation of
things happening around that thing that
enable it. Obviously like LLMs are a
direct complement to what you're doing.
Are there any other surprising
technology areas or trends that help you
do what you do, but are different?
>> So one interesting thing is that
robotics hardware has become
dramatically more affordable over the
last few years. So um
when I started working in robotics about
a decade ago, I worked with a robot
called a PR2, which I believe had a cost
of about $400,000.
Um, when I started my lab at UC
Berkeley, I uh used a robot that uh was
in the ballpark of $30,000. Now, each
arm on this thing is maybe a tenth of
that.
Uh, we think they can be even less. And
that's not due to like any one single
technology. It actually
involves both hardware and software. So,
the kind of um
uh low-cost arms that we have here, they
wouldn't be useful in an industrial
setting because traditional control
methods that rely on a great deal of
precision wouldn't be able to use them.
So, there's kind of a a
a wide range of different
a cluster a constellation, as you said,
uh that have pushed down the price point
of these things. And I think that does
make it a lot more practical to think
about general-purpose robotics today.
>> For people that would want to be fairly
technical about following uh major
milestones that are happening in this
field, where does that information show
up? A lot of it shows up in research
>> papers. Uh research papers,
unfortunately, are not a very accessible
source of information because uh it
takes uh a bit of care to like kind of
sort through everything and figure out
what is the signal and what is what does
something really mean? Like, you know,
research results are sort of intended
for uh an audience that already
understands the starting point from all
the past research results. Um,
but that that's a big one. I think that
robotics, and I think technology in
general, is one of those things where
the public-facing artifacts, like the
demos and the videos that somebody might
post on social media, are often actually
not very good for providing a sense for
the true underlying state of things
because they're sort of meant more as
like kind of a um
a demonstration at the edge of
capability. And grounding that like what
what what is the demo really mean
requires digging deeper. Um, so, yeah,
prob- probably research papers are the
way to go. Sometimes, even worse than
that, you have to actually go talk to
the individual people and find out what
the inside story really is. And uh you
know, maybe that's not a great uh
situation to be in, but that's kind of
how science works.
>> As we look forward to the future in your
mission, what feels the most uncertain?
>> I do think the timeline is uncertain. Um
I'm
you know, if anything, my sense of the
time has gotten more optimistic since we
started, but it's uncertain because of
the nature of the technology that this
is something that is where there's a
bootstrap challenge, like it getting to
a particular level of usefulness so that
uh robots can be deployed so they can do
useful tasks so that they can start
collecting data from open world settings
at scale, and
because that's such a like a a sudden
kind of event with uh getting past the
activation energy, I think there is a
lot of uncertainty about uh the timing
of that. And that's exacerbated by the
fact that
the timeline looks different depending
on what kind of technologies is
deployed. So, like the example I gave
before about whether uh it should be
data collection through teleoperation or
data collection with autonomous systems
or something in between, maybe shared
autonomy, maybe like this this coaching
kind of thing. Like those all sort of
change the picture in terms of how
deployments work and how in the wild
data collection works. So, because of
that, I do think there's a quite a bit
of uncertainty about the time.
>> You're in such an interesting position
because um
you're at the center of research, lots
of different kinds of people are talking
to you, asking you questions.
What What are questions that you're
surprised people don't ask you? What are
the things that people don't ask you
about
that they should?
>> Well, I think the question you asked
earlier actually about uh how how
somebody should prepare. I think there's
a variant of that question, which would
be something like, "Okay, if I want to
start using autonomous robots for a
thing, like what should I start setting
up?" Should I should I should I set up
teleoperation? Should I set up uh
you know, should should I modify my task
in some way so that's more accessible?
Should I design new hardware? Like maybe
I should design new hardware so I can
plug your software into it.
And I think people make a lot of
assumptions about that. Like for
example, uh one assumption is like,
"Well, machine learning requires data,
so let me just like figure out something
that will collect data.
That's not often the best assumption
because you need the right kind of data.
Like, maybe some data is easy. Like,
it's easy to get like videos of people
doing something, but that doesn't mean
that's the right kind of data. And it
might be domain dependent. It might be
depend on the on the
your thesis about the technology that
will succeed. So, I think that people do
make a lot of assumptions about that.
Not that I necessarily have a better
answer for them even if they ask me, but
it's something where there's a big space
of possibilities.
>> We talked about these like big uncertain
long-term timelines. What is like the
very next thing you are trying to solve
that's like extremely visible?
>> So, with uh without like giving too much
away, uh what I can say is that uh a big
focus for us right now is actually
better understanding this kind of like
middle-level reasoning part of the
problem because we think that we have a
a pretty good sense for how to acquire
low-level physical behaviors, but
getting those low-level physical
behaviors to generalize requires
bringing to bear a lot of this kind of
common sense knowledge. And
the representation of that might be
really important. So, LLMs make certain
kinds of representations very
convenient. They make it very convenient
to basically turn text into other text.
But, that's not necessarily the best
representation for what an embodied
system needs to do. Like, sometimes it
needs to think about things more
spatially, sometimes semantically,
sometimes other representations. And
trying to figure out exactly how to
structure that kind of internal thinking
process might be a very important
question. And the answer to that
question might be different in the world
of embodied foundation models than it is
in the world of LLMs. So, that's like a
concrete thing that we're working on
now.
>> Where do you think you fall like if I if
I could somehow get the 100 most
uh informed and active robotics
researchers in the room at once and poll
them on how certain they are that things
will have, you know, unlimited
capabilities and how soon that might
happen? Where
Where do you fall in that distribution?
>> I'm on the optimistic end when it comes
to um established robotics researchers
and on the pessimistic end relative to
robotics entrepreneurs.
>> Interesting. And and I understand the
entrepreneur part for sure.
They're optimistic by nature. Why are
you on the optimistic end of the
researcher community?
>> Robotics has a very long history uh
which has precious few successes. Let me
put it this way. Especially when it
comes to robotic AI. So, I think if
we're being honest about it, like, you
know,
most robots that are out there doing
useful work are still running, you know,
And there that's because the robotics
problem is hard. Maybe not our fault.
It's just a difficult problem.
And because of that, I do think that
there is like good reason for caution to
say that well,
okay, maybe we've like made a lot of
headway on this part of the problem, but
there's like many other problems that
still remain. Right? Now,
part of why I'm optimistic about this is
that I kind of have like a sense of what
has proven tough for me before, and I
can see a lot of the puzzle pieces that
I'm imagining could be slotted in to
address many of those things. But, you
know, as my co-founder Carol likes to
say like when you when you've climbed
the mountain, only then do you see if
there's another mountain after it,
right? And in robotics, there's been a
lot of experience of lots of mountains.
>> Given that endurance is required, who or
what most inspires you?
>> I am actually quite inspired by Boston
Dynamics.
Again, I think there's like a lot of
things that we can debate on the
technology side, but
I think that there is a lot of value in
repeatedly
showing something
that people wouldn't have thought
possible, even if there's all sorts of
caveats and assumptions and so on.
And certainly in robotics like,
you know, what whatever we might say
about demos and whatnot, like I think
it's very fair to say that
people have revised their thoughts about
what's possible from seeing some of that
stuff. So, I think that's that's
definitely one. I think I'm also
inspired by organizations that create an
atmosphere for experimentation. And I
think that, you know, there are some
research labs that have done a very good
job of this. I think actually
OpenAI has has historically done a great
job of this of creating an atmosphere
where individual researchers can
experiment with things and be empowered
to see those things through. Like, you
know, ChatGPT was, you know, basically
John Schulman's pet experiment for a
while. Like, it wasn't a concerted
corporate strategy with lots of, you
know, spreadsheets and
pie charts. It was like a pet project.
So, I think there's something
pretty inspiring about organizations
that empower people to have pet projects
turn into world-changing
successes. And, you know, certainly one
of the aspirations that I and my
co-founders have here at Physical
Intelligence is to provide some of that
to the best of our ability.
And it's it's it's hard to do. Like, you
can't It's very hard to have an
organization where that has that kind of
capability.
>> I feel like Google used to have that one
day you can do whatever you want thing.
Is Is that the spirit of it? Or Or
>> I I I
I was absolutely shocked when I started
working at Google
at the level of um
I guess leverage that I felt I could
have. So, um
one of the projects that I did in um
with with many of my colleagues there in
2015 was a colloquially called as the
arm farm. So, we we took uh a couple
dozen robots, put them uh in a in a lab,
and had them collect data. And that was
like a very bottom-up thing. It's just
like I found out from somebody that they
had a warehouse full of robots that that
nobody was using. Uh and I asked Jeff
Dean and Vincent Van Houcke if we could
like stick them in a lab. And I was just
thinking like, okay, they're not going
to take me seriously. I was, you know, I
just started. I was like, you know, uh
level four research scientist. Uh and
Jeff was like, yeah, let's do it. Like,
you know, what do you need? And I think
that I I just remember feeling like,
wow, I had never in my life thought
that, you know, I have that that kind of
uh leverage. I mean, obviously, you
know, I was very young at the time. Uh
And I think that that's that's very
special. And I think getting to a place
where people can unlock their creativity
and have that kind of agency make can
make for a very remarkable place.
>> My friend Jesse has this great question,
which is for companies that you're not
involved with, which one do you most
hope succeeds and why?
People used to say Boom a lot because
they want to fly places faster.
Increasingly as I've asked this
question, people have said Bye because
just the the sheer impact that it might
have if you're successful is massive on
such a global scale. And it's been
really fun just to hear about all the
ins and outs of how you're thinking
about the problem and attacking it. When
I do these interviews, I have the same
traditional last question for everyone.
What is the kindest thing that anyone's
ever done for you?
>> It's a tough question to answer because
I do I do think there are
many moments in my career where I felt
like I I I got a leg up on something. I
think I have the kind of personality
where I sometimes don't appreciate in
the moment and only reflect on it
afterwards. I don't think like I have a
a single answer to that, but probably
like the three moments in my career that
stand out. Actually, one of them I'd
already mentioned to you, which was the
the ARM farm thing. I I'm especially
grateful to to Jeff and to Vincent for
kind of willing to take that that bet on
on me and my colleagues. And there are a
couple other moments like certainly I
think when I started my post doc with
Peter Biel at Berkeley, I had like zero
robotics experience. I had done like
virtual character animation and computer
graphics, right?
And I felt like that was sort of a bet
on my potential more so than my actual
accomplishments. And there was another
moment even earlier on that maybe is
like even more minor where where when I
was in college, I got an internship at
Nvidia that really got me to like
experience some cool stuff
when I was just like a sophomore. And I
think the hiring manager for that also
took a bet on me. And I think that these
kinds of things, I think they really
matter in a person's career. And I think
that
maybe
at the moment I should have been more
grateful, but certainly in hindsight
it's something that made a big
difference. And hopefully I can make
that difference in other people's
careers as well.
>> Well, I've learned so much from you and
your co-founders, and so much today.
Thank you so much for your time.
>> Thank you.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back,
using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does, too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com to see
what they can unlock for your firm.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs.
That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Every investor should know
about Rogo, because Rogo AI's platform
is not just another generic chatbot.
Instead, it was designed to support how
Wall Street bankers and investors
actually work, from sourcing, diligence,
and modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo. First, it connects
directly to your system, so it can work
with your actual data. Second, it
understands your workflows, how work
really happens across a deal or an
investment. And third, it runs
end-to-end and produces real outputs the
way the best people do. Auditable
spreadsheets, investment memos,
diligence materials, and slide decks
that match your standards. This all
comes from the fact that Rogo is built
by finance professionals for finance
professionals, and it's already being
adopted by some of the most demanding
institutions in the world. To learn
more, visit rogo.ai/invest.